---
title: "2022-02-24"
date: 2022-02-24
type: book
commentable: true

weight: 20220120
---

# Summary
- Reading Notes

# IEEE Reading Notes
Pre-read Notes:
Transmitter- Generate Electromagnetic waves which carries signals (this is info)
Receiver – Takes the signal generated from the transmitter and displays the signal (Visually or Audibly)
Antenna array – group of antennas connected into one single antenna that can produce wave patterns that the individuals couldn’t.
MIMO – Stands for Multiple-input Multiple-output

MIMO Prequel Notes (History):
1950’s: wireless communications through phased arrays (Antennas)
•	These antennas can change the shape and the direction of the wave patterns without moving the antenna
•	These antenna’s directed the waves to their intended destination
Later: Adaptive array (antennas):
•	Steer waves/signal in a direction while avoiding any interference from other waves
o	Can adjust wave magnitude
What in the world is degree of freedom (DOF) – max number of values that can sway in value. (Processing more than 1 signal)
•	The overall signal is what is looked at. The signal from the individual antenna array is negligible
Line of sight (LOS) propagation bests these strategies as it provides the most power received.






Multipath Propagation:
1990’s – spatial multiplexing – Multiple (independent) signals travel from transmitter to receiver, thus more data delivered at one time
•	Multipath propagation was needed for this to work
o	Acts as a film that separates each transmitting signal and can be identified as an individual signal
o	Spatial resolution is now dictated by the environment?? I do not understand this	
	Spatial resolution – measure of the smallest signal picked up by a sensor/antenna 
•	Eventually, it was discovered that LOS and multipath propagation have their situational benefits
o	LOS results in more power received, yet has only one degree of freedom (DOF)
	Question: What does more/less DOF mean and effect a signal?
•	I assume more DOF means less noise
o	Multipath propagation results in less power received, but multiple DOF’s
•	SNR – signal to noise ratio – a ratio of how much electronic noise is present to unwanted noise present.
LOS cannot work properly with compact design (compact transmission and receivers)

1990’s to today: 
The want to achieve sub-terahertz range.
Question: How do we calculate D and D’ such that they differ by at least a quarter of a wavelength?
•	The article points this difference out many times, and I am not sure why/how to calculate this
•	I get that the antennas must be spaced apart, so the signals do not get disrupted.
•	Not sure what the frequency does to affect the required distance between antennas.
•	More frequency = fewer scattering signals
o	Scattering – transmitting wave is partially cut and changes/is reflected in some new direction
•	Spatial multiplexing in LOS channels  break through  huge transmission speed is possible

LOS MIMO Paradigm (Line of sight):
•	Allows max power and the use of DOF’s
•	LOS uses beamforming rather than each antenna being a different DOF
o	The arrays are designed to be linear and uniform (optimal)



Notes from meet up: 
•	DOF IS SOMETHING TO MODIFY IN A SYSTEM
•	WITH ONE DOF ITS ONE SIGNAL FROM TRANSMITTER TO RECIEVER 
•	Spatial multiplexing allows antennas to be closer and still distinguish the signals
•	Multipathing – the phase of the wave is different allowing the receiver to discern the two.
•	Planar wavefront model – decerns only one big signal (D = electrical length of wave)
•	General model : ____
•	Distance btw signal = lower, distribution in signal = higher
•	Assumption: single array structure = 1DOF structure
o	Array of subarrays structure – 
•	DOS – blocks the interference from the other wave (LENS)
•	2 receivers will have different signals due to two different transmission waves
o	You can recover the two streams of data due to the mixing (using some equation)
Matrix rank (Linear algebra)- rank of a matrix.  Smallest number for row/column? [M x n] or [n x m]
•	First row is first channel to receivers
•	Second row is second channel to receivers 
•	MIMO GOOD FOR HIGH FREQ


# Next Meeting
- Finish Project Proposal 

